20.0.0.12 release draft (#875)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2020-11-20-JNDI-gRPC.adoc

---
layout: post

> title: "Support for Custom JNDI for Enterprise Beans and gRPC now in GA in Open Liberty 20.0.0.12"

Reviewer: lead with gRPC

Author: Done

> title: "Support for Custom JNDI for Enterprise Beans and gRPC now in GA in Open Liberty 20.0.0.12"

Reviewer 2: `now in GA` probably should be just `in`.  The other announcement blog posts do not have `now` or `GA`

Author: Done

categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/jakub-pomykala
author_github: https://github.com/jakub-pomykala

> seo-title: Support for Custom JNDI for Enterprise Beans and gRPC now in GA in Open Liberty 20.0.0.12 - OpenLiberty.io

Reviewer: lead with gRPC, include "(EJBs)"
Support for gRPC and Custom JNDI for Enterprise Beans (EJBs) now in GA in Open Liberty 20.0.0.12 - OpenLiberty.io

Author: Done

> seo-description: In Open Liberty 20.0.0.12 we now offer support for Custom JDNI Names for Enterprise Beans and you can provide and consume gRPC services from your web applications.

Reviewer: lead with gRPC, include "(EJBs)"

Author: Done

> blog_description: In Open Liberty 20.0.0.12 we now offer support for Custom JDNI Names for Enterprise Beans and you can provide and consume gRPC services from your web applications.

Reviewer: lead with gRPC, include "(EJBs)"

Author: Done

open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
---

> = Support for Custom JNDI for Enterprise Beans and gRPC now in GA in Open Liberty 20.0.0.12

Reviewer: lead with gRPC, include "(EJBs)"

Author: Done

Jakub Pomykala <https://github.com/jakub-pomykala>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /

// tag::intro[]

20.0.0.12

In link:{url-about}[Open Liberty] 20.0.0.12:

> * <<jndi, Support for Custom JNDI Names for Enterprise Beans>>

Reviewer: lead with gRPC

Author: Done

** <<support, What is Support for Custom JNDI Names for Enterprise Beans?>>
** <<migration, Easier Migration for Enterprise Bean Applications>>
** <<config, Application Configuration details>>
** <<customibm, Specify Custom bindings in ibm-ejb-jar-bnd.xml for EJB 3.x>>
** <<customserver, Specify Custom bindings in server.xml>>
** <<customibm2, Specify Custom bindings in ibm-ejb-jar-bnd.xmi for EJB 1.x/2.x>>
* <<grpc, Provide and consume gRPC services from your web applications>>
* <<bugs, Significant bugs fixed in this release>>

> View the list of fixed bugs in link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues?q=label%3Arelease%3A20.0.0.12+label%3A%22release+bug%22[20.0.0.12].

Reviewer: Incorrect link, release labels don't have dots:
https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues?q=label%3A%22release+bug%22+label%3Arelease%3A200012

Author: Done

// end::intro[]

// tag::run[]
[#run]

== Run your apps using 20.0.0.12

If you're using link:{url-prefix}/guides/maven-intro.html[Maven], here are the coordinates:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.openliberty</groupId>
    <artifactId>openliberty-runtime</artifactId>
    <version>20.0.0.12</version>
    <type>zip</type>
</dependency>
----

Or for link:{url-prefix}/guides/gradle-intro.html[Gradle]:

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    libertyRuntime group: 'io.openliberty', name: 'openliberty-runtime', version: '[20.0.0.12,)'
}
----

Or if you're using Docker:

[source]
----
FROM open-liberty
----
//end::run[]

Or take a look at our link:{url-prefix}/downloads/[Downloads page].

[link=https://stackoverflow.com/tags/open-liberty]
image::img/blog/blog_btn_stack.svg[Ask a question on Stack Overflow, align="center"]

//tag::features[]

[#jndi]
=== Support for Custom JNDI Names for Enterprise Beans

> [#support]

Reviewer: The first two sections (#support & #migration) need some reworking.  They're too tWAS heavy, lets keep the reference "(including WebSphere traditional)", but get rid of the other references (aka, nothing in the blog post should be tWAS specific).
Replace all uses of "legacy" with "heritage" throughout the custom JNDI section
The second paragraph (that starts with "Prior to this enhancement, ") needs to be combined with the third paragraph, so that it's a single "before & after" statement.

Reviewer 3: @mbroz2 The entire purpose of this change is to support the ability to use custom JNDI names, as was done on WebSphere traditional and support the default JNDI names from WebSphere traditional.  It seems confusing not to mention that... don't we want customer to understand that this feature will make it easier to migrate from WebSphere traditional to liberty?  I can accept switching from `legacy` to `heritage`, as long as we don't think customers will get this confused with the new `heritage-1.0` feature.

Reviewer 4: The audience for this blog post is not WebSphere customers. It's Open Liberty users. On the whole, we don't talk about migration on ol.io, though I don't see a problem with mentioning that something helps migration from other app servers (in general, of which tWAS is an example) or earlier versions of Java EE that aren't supported by Open Liberty (like EE 6). But this shouldn't be about migrating specifically from tWAS to Liberty.

If you want to write a blog post for that audience (and that sounds like it might be a good idea), it'd be better to do a fuller post (inc the bits you can't fit in here) and submit it to IBM Developer, who do cover how IBM's strategy makes use of, and integrates with, open source projects.

Reviewer: Looks like my response didn't get saved, but it was very similar to Laura's response.  tl;dr as currently written, this reads as a WAS Liberty post/statement, not an Open Liberty post.  

There is no problem with talking about migration from other platforms, but it shouldn't be tWAS specific migration, and I think the current statement "Custom JNDI name support for enterprise beans provides an easier migration path for applications from other platforms (including WebSphere traditional)." covers that well and was the single place that I mentioned we should keep "WebSphere traditional" as it was being used as an 'example' and not the sole purpose of the functionality.

Reviewer 3: Given the target is open-liberty customers and not those that might be interested in migrating from tWAS, then the recommended changes sound good " lets keep the reference "(including WebSphere traditional)", but get rid of the other references", etc.

Author: Done

==== What is Support for Custom JNDI Names for Enterprise Beans?

> Support for Custom JNDI (Java Naming and Directory Interface) Names for Enterprise Beans (EJBs) is an enhancement to all existing enterprise beans features that allows an application to configure and use custom JDNI names for looking up and/or injecting enterprise beans, and to also use legacy default JNDI names from WebSphere traditional.

Reviewer: I'd like to see one reference to Enterprise JavaBeans, so perhaps having that first sentence read as 
"Support for Custom JNDI (Java Naming and Directory Interface) Names for Jakarta Enterprise Beans, formerly known as Enterprise JavaBeans (EJBs), is..."
alternatively, it could be in the sentence that starts with "Prior to Java EE 6" since in JEE6 they were Enterprise JavaBeans (but I'd rather have the JavaBeans reference earlier then later).
@jhanders34 @tkburroughs thoughts?

Reviewer: Remove ", and to also use legacy default JNDI names from WebSphere traditional."

Reviewer 3: @mbroz2 Well, we don't actually support "Jakarta Enterprise Beans" yet, so I disagree with switching to that.  Also, since this is all about improving the migration of "Enterprise JavaBeans", I think trying to call them "Jakarta Enterprise Beans" would be confusing.... the customers that we want to read this won't, because they won't know what Jakarta Enterprise Beans" are.

I also disagree with removing the last part of the sentence that talks about WebSphere traditional..... the entire purpose of this change is to support the ability to use custom JNDI names, as was done on WebSphere traditional.... AND ALSO support the default JNDI names from WebSphere traditional.  We want customers to know that their WebSphere traditional names will now work on Liberty.

Reviewer: ah, good point regarding "Jakarta Enterprise Beans", but I'd still like to see something that calls out JavaBeans, along the lines of ", formerly known as Enterprise JavaBeans (EJBs),"

regarding tWAS, I understand and agree with the motivation behind this work, but that's a WebSphere Liberty statement, not an Open Liberty statement.

Prior to this enhancement, Liberty only supported looking up enterprise beans using the specification define JNDI names : `java:global/<app>/<module>/<bean>!<interface>` & variations for `java:app` and `java:module`.

> Without any additional configuration, the default JNDI names that were available on WebSphere traditional are now available for applications to use to lookup and/or inject enterprise beans. Also, rather than using the defaults, a custom name for each EJB may be specified in the `ibm-ejb-jar-bnd.xml` file (or `ibm-ejb-jar-bnd.xmi` file for EJB 2.x and 1.x modules). This file is the same format as used by WebSphere traditional. These new JNDI name options are available in addition to the existing specification required names.

Reviewer: instead of saying 'that were available on WebSphere traditional' can we just list what they are? Or are there too many or the names are too long?

Reviewer 3: @mbroz2 The new JNDI names are defined by customer applications; we don't know what they are.  This feature is adding the ability for customers to define their own names, and also provide the WebSphere traditional defaults that would be derived from their application.  The WebSphere traditional custom names and default names are in addition to the EJB spec defined names; which is the same behavior as WebSphere traditional.

Reviewer: and when it comes to "also provide the WebSphere traditional defaults" those are not things we can list in some way? they're all dynamically derived based on the customer code?  They don't follow any sort of naming pattern that we could show instead (something like https://stackoverflow.com/a/24005631/6351865)?

Reviewer 3: Yes, that stackoverflow post has a nice summary of the defaults.  Specifically, the following could be included here instead of saying "WebSphere traditional defaults" : 
```
For EJB 3.x modules, the following defaults will be available if a custom name is not provided:
Short form local interfaces and homes    ejblocal:<package.qualified.interface>
Short form remote interfaces and homes   <package.qualified.interface>
Long form local interfaces and homes     ejblocal:<component-id>#<package.qualified.interface>
Long form remote interfaces and homes    ejb/<component-id>#<package.qualified.interface>

The component-id defaults to <application-name>/<module-jar-name>/<ejb-name>
```

Reviewer 3: Change to something like:

Without any additional configuration, ~~the~~ _legacy_ default JNDI names ~~that were available on WebSphere traditional~~ are now available for applications to use to lookup and/or inject enterprise beans. Also, rather than using the defaults, a custom name for each EJB may be specified in the `ibm-ejb-jar-bnd.xml` file (or `ibm-ejb-jar-bnd.xmi` file for EJB 2.x and 1.x modules). ~~This file is the same format as used by WebSphere traditional.~~ These new JNDI name options are available in addition to the existing specification required names.

For EJB 3.x modules, the following defaults will be available if a custom name is not provided:
Short form local interfaces and homes    ejblocal:<package.qualified.interface>
Short form remote interfaces and homes   <package.qualified.interface>
Long form local interfaces and homes     ejblocal:<component-id>#<package.qualified.interface>
Long form remote interfaces and homes    ejb/<component-id>#<package.qualified.interface>

The component-id defaults to <application-name>/<module-jar-name>/<ejb-name>

Author: ```
For EJB 3.x modules, the following defaults will be available if a custom name is not provided:
Short form local interfaces and homes `ejblocal:<package.qualified.interface>`
Short form remote interfaces and homes `<package.qualified.interface>`
Long form local interfaces and homes `ejblocal:#<package.qualified.interface>`
Long form remote interfaces and homes `ejb/#<package.qualified.interface>`

The component-id defaults to `//`
```

@tkburroughs is it fine with the back ticks like this?

Reviewer 3: @jakub-pomykala Oh, sorry, it should be:
"The component-id defaults to `<application-name>/<module-jar-name>/<ejb-name>`"
(seems github strips out the `<>` stuff if not in a code block

Author: Done

Author: Are the rest of the back ticks okay with you @tkburroughs ?

Reviewer 3: @jakub-pomykala back ticks are okay, but I see some other things in `<> have been lost....

Should be :

For EJB 3.x modules, the following defaults will be available if a custom name is not provided:
```
Short form local interfaces and homes    ejblocal:<package.qualified.interface>
Short form remote interfaces and homes   <package.qualified.interface>
Long form local interfaces and homes     ejblocal:<component-id>#<package.qualified.interface>
Long form remote interfaces and homes    ejb/<component-id>#<package.qualified.interface>

The component-id defaults to <application-name>/<module-jar-name>/<ejb-name>
```

Author: Done

[#migration]
==== Easier Migration for Enterprise Bean Applications

> Custom JNDI name support for enterprise beans provides an easier migration path for applications from other platforms (including WebSphere traditional).

Reviewer: remove all references to tWAS except for this one.

Reviewer 3: The whole point of this feature is to provide the functionality of WebSphere traditional, so I think it will be a bit tricky and possibly quite vague if this is the only reference to WebSphere traditional.

Perhaps we just don't want to blog about this feature enhancement at all?

Reviewer: I'm confused because the intro states " is an enhancement to all existing enterprise beans features that allows an application to configure and use custom JDNI names for looking up and/or injecting enterprise beans," which seems agnostic to tWAS and what we should be focusing on in the blog post (which I think the blog post does cover......  aka, it's the same reasons for why tWAS introduced this functionality as well)
The only thing that I understood to be related to tWAS is that we 'just happen to' pick the same defaults as those of tWAS

Reviewer 4: If it's agnostic to tWAS (and could be any older app server), can we not talk about it in those terms? The Open Liberty website, inc release blog posts, should be about Open Liberty with no history of tWAS/WebSphere behind it.

Reviewer 3: So, the feature improves migration from any other app server, but provides much more value when coming from WebSphere traditional for 2 reasons:
1 - The defaults are the exact same defaults on tWAS; other app servers that are not tWAS would see no benefit here.
2 - The file format for custom names is the tWAS file format.  So tWAS customers see a much more significant benefit as they can just move their app unchanged; other vendors benefit because it is now possible to move their app without changing the code, but they will need to change the format of their binding file.

However, we can elaborate that on a different blog post that is not ol.io.

Author: After removing all references to tWAS(apart from this one) nothing else is being change. Have I understood that right? @mbroz2 @tkburroughs

Prior to Java EE 6, the Enterprise Beans specification did not prescribe the JNDI names required for enterprise beans, so every platform provided platform specific default names and custom binding file formats. Since Liberty only supported the specification defined JNDI names, migrating applications from other platforms often requires code changes to modify the platform specific JNDI names to the newer specification defined names.

Since Liberty now supports the same default JNDI names, and same binding file format as WebSphere traditional, code changes to modify the JNDI lookup names are no longer required when migrating EJB applications from WebSphere traditional to Liberty.
Migration from other platforms is also simplified because applications may be migrated without changing code, but instead migrating the other platform specific binding files to the new Liberty platform specific binding file format.

[#config]
==== Application Configuration details

> Full details about the legacy default bindings provided, as well as the syntax for declaring custom JNDI names in the ibm-ejb-jar-bnd.xml file, including examples, may be found in link:https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSEQTP_9.0.5/com.ibm.websphere.base.doc/ae/cejb_bindingsejbfp.html[this IBM Knowledge Center article].

Reviewer: @lauracowen are we ok with linking back to KC from ol.io?

Reviewer 3: The main reason I included this link is because the ol.io documentation (which will be a migration of this KC link) won't be available for quite some time.  Karen Deen requested that the blog post fully explain how to use the enhancement, and the easiest way to do that is just direct them to that link.  It is way too much information to include in the blog post; but includes everything they need to know to take advantage of the feature.

Reviewer 4: @mbroz2 In general no, but we do occasionally link from the release blog posts if absolutely necessary.

Reviewer 4: This release blog post shouldn't explain fully how to use anything. Its purpose is to promote what's new in the release and help users get started trying it.

You can, however, write a separate fuller blog post to provide more info than that. However (as I mentioned in another comment), if the focus of the update is on migration from tWAS (or that's useful info for a WebSphere customer), I would submit that post to IBM Developer, as it's not appropriate for the OpenLiberty.io blog.

Author: @mbroz2 @tkburroughs are we keeping the link back to KC?

Custom bindings may be configured for an application in the following three locations.

[customibm]
===== Specify Custom bindings in ibm-ejb-jar-bnd.xml for EJB 3.x

Following are examples of how to configure custom bindings for EJB 3.x beans in an EJB JAR module or WAR module in `ibm-ejb-jar-bnd.xml`

Specify a binding per interface:

[source, XML]
----
   <session name="NoInterceptorBasicStateless">
      <interface class="com.ejbs.InventoryService" binding-name="ejb/Inventory"/>
   </session>
----

Specify a component id (a prefix for default long form bindings)

[source, XML]
----
   <session name="AccountServiceBean" component-id="Dept549/AccountProcessor"/>
----

Simple binding name (one name used for both local and remote)

[source, XML]
----
   <session name="AccountServiceBean" simple-binding-name="ejb/AccountService"/>
----

Local and Remote home specific binding names

[source, XML]
----
   <session name="AccountServiceBean" local-home-binding-name="ejblocal:AccountService"/>
   <session name="AccountServiceBean" remote-home-binding-name="ejb/services/AccountService"/>
----

[customserver]
===== Specify Custom bindings in server.xml

> Following is an example of how to configure custom bindings for EJB 3.x beans in an EJB JAR module or WAR module in `server.xml` in the `<application>` or `<ejbApplicationd>` elements:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Following is an example of how to configure custom bindings for EJB 3.x beans in an EJB JAR module or WAR module in `server.xml` in the `<application>` or `<ejbApplication>` elements:
```
Typo

Author: Done

[source, XML]
----

>    <ejbApplicationlocation="EJBTest.jar">

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   <ejbApplication location="EJBTest.jar">
```
Missing space.

Author: Done

[source, XML]
----
    <ejbContainer bindToServerRoot="false"/>
----

It is also possible to disable just the legacy short form default JNDI name support (i.e. the bean is bound using the interface name) with the following setting in server.xml:

[source, XML]
----
   <ejbContainer disableShortDefaultBindings="true"/>
----

Since the new support for customer JNDI names and legacy defaults provider alternative JNDI names, it is now possible to disable the EJB specification required JNDI names. This is done in server.xml as follows:

[source, XML]
----
   <ejbContainer bindToJavaGlobal="false"/>
----

Finally, the following new configuration attribute on the `<ejbContainer>` element in open-liberty enables the WebSphere traditional behavior of failing application start when multiple beans are bound to the same JNDI name:

[source, XML]
----
    <ejbContainer customBindingsOnError="FAIL"/>
----

> [#grpc]

Reviewer: Lets do subheaders for gRPC to match the look of the Custom JNDI Names section

Author: Done

== Provide and consume gRPC services from your web applications

> link:https://grpc.io/docs/what-is-grpc/introduction/[gRPC] is a high-performance, open source universal RPC framework. gRPC support on Liberty allows developers to both provide and consume gRPC services from your web applications. The introduction of gRPC support in Open Liberty now means you can take advantage of the benefits of gRPC more easily than before. Those benefits include great performance, simple service definitions via Protocol Buffers, cross-platform and language support, and wide industry adoption.

Reviewer: [#intro]
==== What is gRPC?

Reviewer: "The introduction of gRPC support in Open Liberty means you can **now** take"

Author: Done

> These two features which were previously in our beta are now available in this months GA: `grpc-1.0`, which enables gRPC services, and `grpcClient-1.0`, which enables the use of a gRPC client for outbound calls.

Reviewer 5: This seems like a run-on sentence - maybe something like:
```suggestion
These two features were previously only available beta are now generally available: 
- `grpc-1.0`, which enables gRPC services, and
- `grpcClient-1.0`, which enables the use of a gRPC client for outbound calls.
```

Author: Done

> These two features which were previously in our beta are now available in this months GA: `grpc-1.0`, which enables gRPC services, and `grpcClient-1.0`, which enables the use of a gRPC client for outbound calls.

Reviewer: missing commas:
These two features, which were previously in our beta, are....

Reviewer: "month's" not "months"

Author: Changed the whole paragraph to Andy's recommendation:
```
These two features were previously only available in beta are now generally available: 
- `grpc-1.0`, which enables gRPC services, and
- `grpcClient-1.0`, which enables the use of a gRPC client for outbound calls.
```

> 

Reviewer: [#grpcService]
==== gRPC Service

Author: Done

The `grpc-1.0` feature works by scanning web apps for gRPC service implementations, through implementors of `io.grpc.BindableService`. The web app must include the protocol buffer compiler-generated code for the services it intends to provide, and additionally the service class must provide a no-argument constructor. The web app does not need to include any core gRPC libraries; those are provided by the Liberty runtime. Once a gRPC service is scanned and started, it becomes accessible to remote gRPC clients on the configured HTTP ports.

> 

Reviewer: [#grpcClient]
==== gRPC Client

Author: Done

The `grpcClient-1.0` feature provides applications with access to a link:https://netty.io/[Netty] gRPC client, as well as the related libraries. A web app must provide a client implementation and stubs, and can make outbound calls with a `io.grpc.ManagedChannel` without needing to provide the supporting client libraries.

> 

Reviewer: [#grpcTryIt]
==== Try out gRPC

Author: Done

> You can now sample gRPC by either following the instructions in this link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/sample-grpc[GitHub repositories] README or following this basic Hello World service (add the  `grpc-1.0` to the `server.xml`):

Reviewer 2: `You can now sample gRPC` doesn't make any sense.  Maybe it should be `You can now try gRPC`.  `GitHub repositories` seems like it should be `GitHub repository's`.  `add the grpc-1.0 to the server.xml` should be `add the grpc-1.0 feature to your server.xml`

Author: Done

[source, java]
----
package com.ibm.ws.grpc;

import com.ibm.ws.grpc.beans.GreetingBean;

import io.grpc.examples.helloworld.GreeterGrpc;
import io.grpc.examples.helloworld.HelloReply;
import io.grpc.examples.helloworld.HelloRequest;
import io.grpc.stub.StreamObserver;

public class HelloWorldService extends GreeterGrpc.GreeterImplBase {

    public HelloWorldService(){}

    @Override
    public void sayHello(HelloRequest req, StreamObserver<HelloReply> responseObserver) {
        HelloReply reply = HelloReply.newBuilder().setMessage("Hello " + req.getName()).build();
        responseObserver.onNext(reply);
        responseObserver.onCompleted();
    }
}
----

> For this example, the application must provide the link:https://github.com/grpc/grpc-java/blob/master/examples/src/main/proto/helloworld.proto[helloworld protof definition] along with the protobuf compiler output. No additional libraries need to be provided with the application, and once it's started the helloworld greeter service will be accessible on the server's HTTP endpoints.

Reviewer 5: @wtlucy should confirm, but I think "protof" should be "protobuf".
```suggestion
For this example, the application must provide the link:https://github.com/grpc/grpc-java/blob/master/examples/src/main/proto/helloworld.proto[helloworld protobuf definition] along with the protobuf compiler output. No additional libraries need to be provided with the application, and once it's started the helloworld greeter service will be accessible on the server's HTTP endpoints.
```

Author: Done

> For a client example, a basic Servlet using gRPC can be defined via `grpcClient-1.0` with:

Reviewer 2: `via grpcClient-1.0` should be `using the grpcClient-1.0 feature`

Author: Done

public class GrpcClientServlet extends HttpServlet {

        ManagedChannel channel;
        private GreeterGrpc.GreeterBlockingStub greetingService;

        private void startService(String address, int port) 
        {
            channel = ManagedChannelBuilder.forAddress(address , port).usePlaintext().build();
            greetingService = GreeterGrpc.newBlockingStub(channel);
        }

        private void stopService() 
        {
            channel.shutdownNow();
        }

        @Override
        protected void doGet(HttpServletRequest reqest, HttpServletResponse response) 
            throws ServletException, IOException 
        {

            // set user, address, port params
        }

        @Override
        protected void doPost(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response) 
            throws ServletException, IOException 
        {

        // grab user, address, port params
        startService(address, port);
        HelloRequest person = HelloRequest.newBuilder().setName(user).build();
        HelloReply greeting = greetingService.sayHello(person);

        // send the greeting in a response
        stopService();
        }	
    }
}
----

> As with the service example, the application must provide the link:https://github.com/grpc/grpc-java/blob/master/examples/src/main/proto/helloworld.proto[helloworld protof definition] along with the protobuf compiler output. All required gRPC client libraries are provided by `grpcClient-1.0`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
As with the service example, the application must provide the link:https://github.com/grpc/grpc-java/blob/master/examples/src/main/proto/helloworld.proto[helloworld protobuf definition] along with the protobuf compiler output. All required gRPC client libraries are provided by `grpcClient-1.0`.
```

Same as before - not sure, but I think this should be "protobuf".

Author: Done

> As with the service example, the application must provide the link:https://github.com/grpc/grpc-java/blob/master/examples/src/main/proto/helloworld.proto[helloworld protof definition] along with the protobuf compiler output. All required gRPC client libraries are provided by `grpcClient-1.0`.

Reviewer 2: `provided by grpcClient-1.0` should be `provided by the grpcClient-1.0 feature`

Author: Done

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/14542[IllegalAccessError when using MP Rest Client with Java 15]
+
There was a MP Rest Client failure when running with Java 15. This was fixed by changing the visibility of the `compareCustomStatus` method to public. If you would like to know more about MP Rest Client check out our link:https://openliberty.io/guides/microprofile-rest-client.html[Consuming RESTful services with template interfaces] and link:https://openliberty.io/guides/microprofile-rest-client-async.html[Consuming RESTful services asynchronously with template interfaces] guides.

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/14650[MP GraphQL does not scan JARs in WEB-INF/lib for GraphQL components]
+
Classes annotated with things like `@GraphQLApi`, `@Type`, etc. or types referenced from root level queries that exist in JARs in the WEB-INF/lib directory were not processed. This meant that only classes in the WEB-INF/classes directory were processed by the MP GraphQL runtime. 

> * link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/14582[Prevent jsonp-1.0 and jsonpContainer-1.1 from both starting]

Reviewer: If we're not going to link to the json-p guide, I'm not sure we should even both with this issue given how minor it is (it's not as much as functional product bug as it as a serviceability one).  Also, if we do want to keep this one, lets move to be the last defect listed.

Author: I've moved it to the end.

> * link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/14582[Prevent jsonp-1.0 and jsonpContainer-1.1 from both starting]

Reviewer 2: `Prevent jsonp-1.0 and jsonpContainer-1.1 from both starting` should be `Prevent jsonp-1.0 and jsonpContainer-1.1 features from both starting`

Author: Done

+
When `jsonp-1.0` and `jsonContainer-1.1` were configured at the same time it would cause a cryptic CWWKE0702E error of:
[source, text]
----
CWWKE0702E: Could not resolve module: com.ibm.websphere.javaee.jsonp.1.0 [265]
Bundle was not resolved because of a uses constraint violation.
----

> The error handling of this invalid configuration was improved by giving the user an error message of:

Reviewer 6: Would the following wording be better?
> The error handling of this invalid configuration has been improved to give an error message of:

Author: Sounds much better. Thank you

[source, text]
----
CWWKF0033E: The singleton features com.ibm.websphere.appserver.jsonpImpl-1.1.0 and com.ibm.websphere.appserver.jsonpImpl-1.0.0 cannot be loaded at the same time. The configured features jsonpContainer-1.1 and jsonp-1.0 include one or more features that cause the conflict. Your configuration is not supported; update server.xml to remove incompatible features.
----

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/14597[Increased CPU when moving from Liberty 19.0.0.6 to newer releases]
+

> When moving from 19.0.0.6 to a newer release, there was an issue with an increase in CPU. This was caused by a fix for a previous issue which made the processing of Audit features method arguments to be performed whether the feature was enabled or not. This issue was fixed by undoing the previous change and fixing the original problem differently. For more details on Liberty's performance, see this link:https://openliberty.io/blog/2020/10/21/memory-footprint-throughput.html[post].

Reviewer: "in CPU **usage**."
"of **the** Audit feature's method arguments"

Author: Done

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/14743[Variables in include files not recognized after config update]
+

> This issue can cause variables defined in configuration files included by server.xml to not be recognized. We added support for using variables in include elements sometime earlier this year, and to do that we have to temporarily add new variables into the registry we use to resolve values. But in this specific scenario it affected the computation we do later to determine if any variables have changed. We would end up removing variables from the permanent variable registry. For more information take a look at our link:https://openliberty.io/docs/20.0.0.11/reference/config/server-configuration-overview.html[Server Configuration Overview].

Reviewer 7: I think this may be more information than is needed here.. I would suggest something like:
We added support for using variables in include elements in 20.0.0.3. The changes required to support temporary resolution of variables during processing of configuration resulted in a bug where changes to variables may not be recognized during a configuration update. For more information.....

Reviewer: Agreed

Author: Done

---
layout: post
title: Support for gRPC and Custom JNDI for Enterprise Beans (EJBs) in Open Liberty 20.0.0.12
categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/jakub-pomykala
author_github: https://github.com/jakub-pomykala
seo-title: Support for gRPC and Custom JNDI for Enterprise Beans (EJBs) now in Open Liberty 20.0.0.12 - OpenLiberty.io
seo-description: In Open Liberty 20.0.0.12 you can provide and consume gRPC services from your web applications and we now offer support for Custom JDNI Names for Enterprise Beans(EJBs).
blog_description: In Open Liberty 20.0.0.12 you can provide and consume gRPC services from your web applications and we now offer support for Custom JDNI Names for Enterprise Beans(EJBs).
open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
---
= Support for gRPC and Custom JNDI for Enterprise Beans (EJBs) in Open Liberty 20.0.0.12
Jakub Pomykala <https://github.com/jakub-pomykala>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /

// tag::intro[]

> In Open Liberty 20.0.0.12 we now support gRPC-1.0 and gRPC Client 1.0. gRPC is a "high-performance, open source universal RPC framekwork." Open Liberty 20.0.0.12 also supports custom JNDI (Java Naming and Directory Interface) for Enterprise Beans (EJBs). This allows you to use custom JDNI names for looking up and/or injecting enterprice beans.

Reviewer 2: `framekwork` is spelled wrong.  It should be `framework`.  You have a mix of gRPC-1.0 for the feature name and the description name of gRPC Client 1.0.  I think it should be `we now support support the gRPC 1.0 and gRPC Client 1.0 features.

Author: Done, thank you.

[source]
----
FROM open-liberty
----
//end::run[]

Or take a look at our link:{url-prefix}/downloads/[Downloads page].

[link=https://stackoverflow.com/tags/open-liberty]
image::img/blog/blog_btn_stack.svg[Ask a question on Stack Overflow, align="center"]

//tag::features[]

[#grpc]
== Provide and consume gRPC services from your web applications

[#intro]
==== What is gRPC?

link:https://grpc.io/docs/what-is-grpc/introduction/[gRPC] is a high-performance, open source universal RPC framework. gRPC support on Liberty allows developers to both provide and consume gRPC services from your web applications. The introduction of gRPC support in Open Liberty means you can now take advantage of the benefits of gRPC more easily than before. Those benefits include great performance, simple service definitions via Protocol Buffers, cross-platform and language support, and wide industry adoption.

[#grpcService]
==== gRPC Service

These two features were previously only available in beta are now generally available: 
- `grpc-1.0`, which enables gRPC services, and
- `grpcClient-1.0`, which enables the use of a gRPC client for outbound calls.

[#grpcClient]
==== gRPC Client

> The `grpc-1.0` feature works by scanning web apps for gRPC service implementations, through implementors of `io.grpc.BindableService`. The web app must include the protocol buffer compiler-generated code for the services it intends to provide, and additionally the service class must provide a no-argument constructor. The web app does not need to include any core gRPC libraries; those are provided by the Liberty runtime. Once a gRPC service is scanned and started, it becomes accessible to remote gRPC clients on the configured HTTP ports.

Reviewer 2: This is a bit confusing.  The title is gRPC Client, but the content is about gRPC server side function from what I can tell.

Seems like this paragraph belongs with `gRPC Services` heading and the next paragraph belongs with `gRPC Client`

Author: Done

            throws ServletException, IOException 
        {

        // grab user, address, port params
        startService(address, port);
        HelloRequest person = HelloRequest.newBuilder().setName(user).build();
        HelloReply greeting = greetingService.sayHello(person);

        // send the greeting in a response
        stopService();
        }	
    }
}
----

As with the service example, the application must provide the link:https://github.com/grpc/grpc-java/blob/master/examples/src/main/proto/helloworld.proto[helloworld protof definition] along with the protobuf compiler output. All required gRPC client libraries are provided by the `grpcClient-1.0` feature.

[#jndi]
=== Support for Custom JNDI Names for Enterprise Beans

[#support]
==== What is Support for Custom JNDI Names for Enterprise Beans?

Support for Custom JNDI Names for Enterprise Beans (EJBs) is an enhancement to all existing enterprise beans features that allows an application to configure and use custom JDNI names for looking up and/or injecting enterprise beans, and to also use legacy default JNDI names from WebSphere traditional.

> 

Reviewer 3: Let's change: "and to also use legacy default JNDI names from WebSphere traditional."
to "or use legacy default JNDI names instead of the specification defined JNDI names"

This eliminates the tWAS reference and indicates you may now use the 1) spec defined names, 2) the custom names or 3) the legacy defaults.  I think indicating "legacy" is important to differentiate these from the spec defined defaults.

Author: Done

Prior to this enhancement, Liberty only supported looking up enterprise beans using the specification define JNDI names : `java:global/<app>/<module>/<bean>!<interface>` & variations for `java:app` and `java:module`.

> 

Reviewer 3: define -> defined

Author: Done

[#migration]
==== Easier Migration for Enterprise Bean Applications

Custom JNDI name support for enterprise beans provides an easier migration path for applications from other platforms (including WebSphere traditional).

Prior to Java EE 6, the Enterprise Beans specification did not prescribe the JNDI names required for enterprise beans, so every platform provided platform specific default names and custom binding file formats. Since Liberty only supported the specification defined JNDI names, migrating applications from other platforms often requires code changes to modify the platform specific JNDI names to the newer specification defined names.

Since Liberty now supports the same default JNDI names, and same binding file format as WebSphere traditional, code changes to modify the JNDI lookup names are no longer required when migrating EJB applications from WebSphere traditional to Liberty.
Migration from other platforms is also simplified because applications may be migrated without changing code, but instead migrating the other platform specific binding files to the new Liberty platform specific binding file format.

> 

Reviewer 3: Change to :

Prior to Java EE 6, the Enterprise Beans specification did not prescribe the JNDI names required for enterprise beans, so every platform provided platform specific default names and custom binding file formats. Since Liberty only supported the specification defined JNDI names, migrating applications from other platforms often requires code changes to modify the platform specific JNDI names to the newer specification defined names. Now, migration from other platforms is simplified because applications may be migrated without changing code, but instead migrating the other platform specific binding files to the new Liberty platform specific binding file format. In some cases, use of the new legacy default names may also allow applications to migrate to liberty without specifying custom JNDI names in a binding file.

Author: Done
